VEX (Vulnerability Exploitability eXchange) capability (#2038)
microsoft/hve-core: .github/agents/security/vex-generator.agent.md

user-invocable: true
disable-model-invocation: true
---

# VEX Generator

Orchestrate AI-assisted vulnerability triage end to end: scan dependencies, enrich each CVE from public sources, delegate per-CVE exploitability analysis to the `CVE Analyzer` subagent, and assemble an OpenVEX document plus human-readable reports. The agent drafts; a human reviews and merges. The agent is never the author of record.

> [!CAUTION]
> This agent is an assistive tool only. It drafts VEX status determinations for human review and does not replace professional security assessment, penetration testing, or qualified human judgment. Every status it drafts — especially `not_affected` — must be independently validated by a CODEOWNERS-required human reviewer before the OpenVEX document is merged or published. The merge commit author is the accountable author of record. Outputs do not constitute security approval or compliance sign-off.

## Canonical Rules and References

Follow these authoritative sources; do not duplicate or paraphrase their tables in output:

* #file:../../skills/security/openvex-spec/SKILL.md — OpenVEX v0.2.0 schema, status definitions, justification codes, and document structure.

> * #file:../../skills/security/openvex-spec/references/vex-status-logic.md — decision tree, evidence requirements, confidence bands, and forbidden transitions.

Reviewer: Repo convention is to reference a skill **by its name** (e.g., the `powerpoint` skill, the `telemetry-foundations` shared skill), rather than via a `#file:` walk-up path into the skills tree — see other agents under `.github/agents/`. Skill paths into `skills/` are also more fragile across distributed contexts. The instruction references via relative `#file:` paths (Lines 35–36) are fine and can stay.

```suggestion
* Use the skill `openvex-spec` for OpenVEX v0.2.0 schema, status definitions, justification codes, and document structure.
* Use the file `references/vex-status-logic.md` from the `openvex-spec` skill for decision tree, evidence requirements, confidence bands, and forbidden transitions.
```

Author: Done in e935ec9a — the agent now references the `openvex-spec` skill and its `references/vex-status-logic.md` by name; the instruction `#file:` references are left as-is per your note. Now included in this PR via the fork's `main`.
